README.md, before:

# CMIP-GHG-Concentration-Generation

Generation of historical concentrations for CMIP (and other) experiments

Status: Prototype, probably best to come back later

## Installation

For all of our dependency management we use [poetry](https://python-poetry.org/).
Assuming you have poetry, you can then install the project using

```sh
poetry install --only main
```

## Creating the outputs

To create all the outputs, after having installed the project, simply run

```sh
poetry run doit run --verbosity=2
```

## Development

### Installation

As for installation above, except now you will want to install the development
dependencies too, set up pre-commit etc. so the `Makefile` is your friend.
Simply run

```sh
make virtual-environment
```

You can then create the outputs as above, although the development outputs
are probably more helpful. For these, the `Makefile` is once again your friend
so just run the following, which sets the required environment variables too

```sh
make all-dev
```

Commit message:

Update README with more information

README.md, after:

# CMIP-GHG-Concentration-Generation

Generation of historical concentrations for CMIP (and other) experiments. We
use observations from multiple data sets to create a composite data set which
can be used for running models that participate in the Coupled Model
Intercomparison Project (CMIP) and similar experiments. The key characteristics
of the outputs are:

- a consistent data format which follows CMIP (specifically input4MIPs)
  conventions
- a consistent time span and spatial coverage for all 43 greenhouse gases of
  interest (plus composite products for baskets of gases like HFCs, as these
  are required by some models)
- an approach for combining information from multiple observational networks
  into one composite data product
- an approach for deriving the seasonality (variation in concentrations over a
  year) and latitudinal gradients (variation in concentrations from North Pole
  to South Pole) of the concentrations which can be used to extend these
  effects (seasonality and latitudinal gradients) both back in time and forward
  in time. The approach needs to be relatively simple as no high-detail data is
  available to extend these effects back in time and the approach must be
  consistent with the outputs of running a simple climate model to extend these
  effects forward in time (it is typically too expensive to do this forward
  extension using a more complex model)
    - this is the trickiest and most scientifically interesting part of the
      work

## Status

Status: Prototype, we can now produce files in the right format and are moving onto actually crunching the data

## Installation

For all of our dependency management we use [poetry](https://python-poetry.org/).
Assuming you have poetry, you can then install the project using

```sh
poetry install --only main
```

## Creating the outputs

To create all the outputs, after having installed the project, simply run

```sh
poetry run doit run --verbosity=2
```

## Development

### Installation

As for installation above, except now you will want to install the development
dependencies too, set up pre-commit etc. so the `Makefile` is your friend.
Simply run

```sh
make virtual-environment
```

You can then create the outputs as above, although the development outputs
are probably more helpful. For these, the `Makefile` is once again your friend
so just run the following, which sets the required environment variables too

```sh
make all-dev
```
